you
[Music]
good lord
Thelma harbors clan has a rather unique
history and television moving from Carol
Burnett Show comedy sketches to mate for
television movie to beloved sitcom while
the family members may have changed over
the years one constant throughout was
mama herself brilliantly portrayed by
Vicki Lawrence to this day Lawrence
continues to revive the character for TV
appearances how they changed team
thought it was only fitting to revisit
Raytown and in earth some delightful
details you might not know about Mama's
family don't forget to live like and
let's begin
there was no pilot made each year dozens
of pricey television pilots go unseen as
networks pass on the prospective shows
that's just how the biz works what is
far far rarer if not unheard of outside
of this example is a television show
being ordered without a pilot producer
Joe Hamilton salt the idea of Mama's
Family to NBC chairman grant tinker over
a game of golf
not that NBC was buying the idea code
the carol burnett shows the families
kids and the popular 1982 television
movie eunice had established the
characters and concept the share was
canceled after its second season getting
the axe from a network doesn't always
mean death in 1984 NBC booted the Harper
family from its lineup the episodes
fared well in summer reruns however and
others took note the recently merged
Laura Martellus was on the hunt for
first-run syndicated properties seen
live in mama yet the company ordered 100
episodes sitcoms like Charles in Charge
silver spoons and Webster would soon
follow a similar path yet it was momma's
that would become the highest-rated
sitcom in the first-run syndication
two different houses were shown in the
opening credits
with a jump from network to syndication
came several changes Sam Services
Department cast members and some as
subtlest weeks in the opening credits in
its initial run the Harper home is a
smaller boat
additionally the title graphic original
pink switch to yellow in subsequent
releases over the years the original
house has been replaced with a more
familiar dwelling but the color variants
still differentiates the two runs
the instrumental theme song actually had
lyrics while we never hear them in the
television show there Ryan did lyrics
for bless my happy home Lawrence has
been known to perform them in concert
the teen features charming couplets like
vichyssoise and escargot with nothing on
black-eyed peas and home where a
Saturday night will cost you 12-point 98
dollars and that's including the wine
Jamboree played two different sons of
Tama Harper the members of mama's family
evolved as they went from comedy skip -
TV movie - sitcom in the family sketches
Thelma has five children including three
sons Larry
Jack and Phillip in unis the clan has
been trimmed to three kids with just one
son Phillip played by ken berry the F
Troop and memory RFD bat would go on to
star his only son Vinton on the sitcom
the Two Harbors inherited different
genes
Phillip was a pulitzer winning author
while Vinton was a lovable dou Betty
White Andrew McClanahan acted together
before the Golden Girls in the series
her strong brew McLennan played Mama's
sister Frank Crowley who eventually
chokes on a toothpick at the bigger G
again the incomparable Betty White was
the eldest a lead his daughter Ellen
though NBC might have seemed foolish for
dumping Mama's Family and Selena the
show would prove her teacher's for the
network in some ways white and
McClanahan of a broth free to jump
aboard a certain new sitcom about three
older women living together in Miami
initially white was set to play the last
field lunch while McClanahan was said to
be the scatterbrained Bros in no small
part based on their prior rows the two
switched characters at the last moment
the location of Ray town is never
explicitly stated much like Springfield
on the Simpsons the city of Ray town is
never given a home state in Mama's
family the era some references to the
tri-state area but the specifics remain
vague Lawrence confessed the town is
loosely based on Raytown Missouri a
suburb of Kansas City still the Harper
family does not definitely live in the
show-me state however this did not deter
the real-life citizens of ray town from
voting to erect a $10,000 stative mama
lawrence earned an Emmy nomination for
playing Thelma Harper but not in Mama's
family Lawrence earned a nomination for
her mama character after her work
alongside Carol Burnett in the Eunice
movie not once for the sitcom
she lost the trophy to Penny fuller in
the Elephant Man Vicki Lawrence made a
disco album
Lawrence is a multimedia start most
remember her Heat
the night the lights went out in Georgia
which reached the top of the Billboard
Hot 100 for two weeks in 1973 the
actress was continuing her singing
career throughout the seventies
culminating in an overlooked album of
Lights dance grooves dubbed newborn
woman in 1979 mommy ran for president in
2008 in 2008 Tom Harper who was briefly
mayor Freetown announced her candidacy
for President of the United States with
the book mama for president good lord
why not her platform included building
senior citizen homes along the border to
police immigration every time I enjoy
exotic delicacies like Italian sausage
polish kielbasa
or German Nakhla worst I'm thankful
foreigners have come to America and
brought their whiners with them she
wrote why don't we ever see another on
Bhama appeared on Jeopardy family feud
and Hollywood Squares
thalma was a major fan of game shows a
mama's family and in the real world mama
made both Alex Trebek and Richard Orson
while trying to win some money on the
sitcom while years later Lawrence
continued to sleep on the wig in house
dress to pop up in character is one of
the Hollywood Squares Lawrence also
hosted a game show in the late 1980s win
lose or draw a picture alike contest
that took place on a set
mudal after Burt Reynolds living room
plans for a spin-off of the family
sketches had been discussed as early as
seasons 9/10 of The Carol Burnett Show
executive producer and Burnett Stan
husband Jerry Hamilton came to Vicki
Lawrence with a news that he had made a
deal to produce a weekly half-hour
sitcom based on the sketches but
Lawrence who had just given birth to her
second child declined to participate and
the deal was off it wasn't until the
success of the unit special in 1982 that
burnin and Hamilton were able to
convince Lawrence to do the series
Burnett decided to try for another
spin-off idea when she in Hamilton
divorced in 1984 around the time momma's
family ended its run on NBC this
resulted in Hamilton getting the rights
to the family sketches in the divorce
terms due to the fact that he was the
executive producer of The Carol Burnett
Show and helped write several of the
family sketches Burnett phoned up
Lawrence wanting proposing a syndicated
series featuring Eunice and Mama but
Lawrence told her she and Hamilton had
already signed with lorimar telepath
then the series syndicated distributor
to relaunch Mama's Family causing
Burnett to promptly hang up on her the
two actresses eventually reconciled
following Hamilton's death in 1991
according to rumor Clanton the original
concept for aunt Fran was radically
different
fren was initially conceived to be far
more assertive and bossing and would
have served as a primary foil to thalma
McLennan had never before played a
character this type and eagerly signed
on
she was bitterly disappointed upon
learning that fran had been rewritten
into farsi uptight spinster consequently
rune did not enjoy her experience on the
series that march and wasn't at all
sorry when it was cancelled and thats
all for now don't forget to leave a like
subscribe and share this video with fans
take care
[Music]